Source: r/ithaca
Thread: Hello, it looks like I will be moving to Titus Towers soon
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ithaca/comments/[thread-id]

Original Post (XLII):
I will be moving to Titus Towers soon. I'd love to hear anything positive or negative about it. I currently live in Asteri and that is the standard from which I can compare.

Reply (shakey1975):
One of my coworkers lived there briefly and told me the fire alarm was always going off because people were always burning things.

Reply (XLII):
I'm currently at Asteri, the fire alarm goes off here all the time and so far 3 of those times there has been a fire. So it wouldn't exactly be different, only safer.

Reply (6FeetBeneathTheMoon):
They claim it's strictly smoke-free but every time I've been inside it smells like smoke.

Reply (iconmaster):
I recently helped relocate my father to the Tower. The apartments are quite shockingly nice. However, the fire alarm goes off frequently and there's been a constant insect issue that they've been regularly exterminating. Other than that, the community there is great.

Reply (XLII):
The only thing tripping me up is the kitchen is tiny. I'm serious about cooking and the kitchen is lilliputian at best. I would have to use part of the living room to keep a microwave and pressure cooker.

Reply (Al1veL1keYou):
A pal lives there. Fire alarms go off sometimes 3-4 times a night because of poor ventilation in the kitchens. Shower steam sets it off, pan cooking sets it off, someone smoking in the apartment. Sometimes it's a forgetful elderly person who puts something on the stove and walks away. The fire department is always rolling through. From my perspective it would be troublesome if there was a real fire and nobody knew if the alarm was real or not.

Reply (CompetitiveAd4344):
I moved my mom there in fall of 2024. She had Parkinson's Disease and living rurally became unrealistic. Even though she didn't engage with the community, she did feel like she was part of a wonderful community. She had an apartment overlooking the park-like backyard in Titus 2. The kitchen was small but functional, the living space was impressive.

Reply (MoreApplication9000):
I've heard from several residents that bug infestations can be an issue, especially bedbugs and roaches. Be prepared with borax, a steamer, and a mattress cover.

Reply (HoraceBenbow):
A relative lived in Titus Towers twenty years ago and the fire alarm was going off all the time then too. It's an old, consistent problem that won't be going away.

Reply (XLII - update after moving in):
I've been here 3 weeks, fire alarm has gone off about 8 times. Because all the doors are fire doors they recommend you shelter in place.