Source: r/Cornell
Thread: Where to live in Ithaca?
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Cornell/comments/[thread-id]

Original Post (BoredStudent07):
I am an incoming graduate student to Cornell for Spring 2026 (January). Looking for suggestions from current Cornell students on appropriate areas to live without a car. Want to either walk to campus or have good bus connectivity. I am undergrad age (20) so fine with typical college-style disturbances.

Reply (Any_Attorney_9891):
Collegetown Terrace Apartments. Studio, 1, 2, 3 bedroom apartments close to campus. Shuttle to campus is available from the complex. Excellent experience here. Clean, safe, and managed well.

Reply (RegularTraining6476):
I live in a 3 bed 2 bath at CT Terrace right now, $1,090/month including everything except electricity, which has been $20-30/month. Rent is high but so many perks: a huge gym, study areas, covered parking for an extra fee, and a FREE shuttle bus to campus between 7:30-4:30pm. Shuttle drops you at either Collegetown, the law school, or by Statler. Runs every 15 min from 7:30-12 and every 30 min from 12-4:30. Less than a 10-minute walk to the heart of Collegetown, TCAT bus stop right next to the complex, and rooms are huge with walk-in closets. Highly recommend CTT.

Reply (Knsyhs):
Collegetown: best bus connectivity and best place to be walkable to campus. But if your budget is low, the relatively inexpensive houses are shitty to live in. You have to pay more for a better experience since it's right at the doorstep of campus.

Lower Collegetown / Collegetown Terraces: good connectivity via bus. Lower Collegetown has mostly old houses but some close ones near downtown with good options. There's also grad housing somewhere in the area.

Downtown: connects through all buses via Seneca and Green St. A lot of grad students live here as buses run pretty late into the night. Can be expensive based on where you live. If you are a grad student and want the grad experience, live somewhere in this area — Collegetown is mostly undergrad territory.

Fall Creek: a lot of people love it but a major disadvantage is bus connectivity — a car is almost a must unless you can walk 5-8 minutes to downtown and get a bus from there. Houses are good, quieter, budget options available.

North Campus: good places 5-10 minutes walk from the residential area. Heights Court area is a perfect walk and place to stay — not too loud, not too far. Can be pricey. For a grad student I'd say go somewhere close to downtown so you have the choice to live your own way instead of being caught up in the undergrad scene in Collegetown.

To find places: check Craigslist, Facebook groups, and Cornlet. Don't fall for scams on Facebook but it's a good place to start and gauge prices.

Reply (Knsyhs - on safety):
Cornell is pretty safe in general. I have walked pretty late and have seen people and buses to get from one place to another. Maybe in parts of downtown, like Green St, on weeknights sometimes it could feel a little eerie if it's late. There's always a little sketchiness everywhere but people are pretty good here.